---
title: "Explicitly interpret a script"
# description:
---

# Running Scripts {#running-scripts}

There are many ways to run Bash scripts, and there are some subtle differences between them.

# Explicitly interpret a script

You can explicitly interpret a script using a specific `bash` executable by passing the script as an argument:

{lang="bash"}
```
bash ./script.bash
```

The `bash` executable is an “interpreter,” a program which can read and execute commands written in the Bash scripting language. Basically this means that if script.bash is a readable file in the current directory you can run `bash ./script.bash` to execute the commands within that file.

T> Note that there’s no requirement that the file is a valid Bash script! For one thing, the file extension does not have any influence on the contents of a file. Someone could `mv cat.jpg script.bash`, but of course that doesn’t make their cat picture a valid script! Something you are more likely to come across is people using the generic `.sh` extension. I’ve avoided this, because despite superficial similarities it is extremely difficult to write truly portable shell scripts. In general you can’t expect a script to work the same in different [versions of Bash](#check-shell-version) without some work to [test](#testing) the functionality in every version after every change. Supporting even a single version of another shell is much more work, and actively supporting more than one shell can cripple the development process.

You can also pass a script to standard input of a `bash` command to run it. This is rarely useful, for example when running a script generated by another command: `cat header.bash body.bash footer.bash | bash`.

### Running a script in the wrong shell

It is not advisable to run Bash scripts with another shell interpreter like `sh`:

{lang="bash"}
```
sh ./script.bash # Don’t do this!
```

This command uses the `sh` interpreter to run script.bash, regardless of the shebang line or the contents of the file! It is not quite as wrong as `python ./script.bash`, but the script is still likely to behave differently when run with the wrong interpreter. The side–effect can be anything from a simple syntax error to a subtle bug or catastrophic behavior.

W> On some systems `/bin/sh` is a symlink to the Bash interpreter. When running such an `sh` command Bash enables [POSIX mode](https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/bash/POSIX) to behave more closely to POSIX shell, a semi–formal definition of a shell which as far as I understand no implementation has ever matched exactly. For example, Bash’s POSIX mode still allows [Bash–specific syntax](https://mywiki.wooledge.org/Bashism?action=recall&rev=83) (“bashisms”) like `[[ … ]]`.
